---
layout: post
name: "Zariel"
date: 2018-11-20
tags: [large, fiend, cr26, mordenkainens-tome-of-foes]
---

**Large fiend (devil), lawful evil**

**Armor Class** 21 (natural armor)

**Hit Points** 580 (40d10 + 360)

**Speed** 30 ft., fly 150 ft.

|   STR   |   DEX   |   CON   |   INT   |   WIS   |   CHA   |
|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|
| 27 (+8) | 24 (+7) | 28 (+8) | 26 (+8) | 27 (+8) | 30 (+10) |

**Saving Throws** Int +16, Wis +16, Cha +18

**Skills** Intimidation +18, Perception +16

**Damage Resistances** cold, fire, radiant; bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing from nonmagical weapons that aren't silvered

**Damage Immunities** necrotic, poison

**Condition Immunities** charmed, exhaustion, frightened, poisoned

**Senses** darkvision 120 ft., passive perception 26

**Languages** all, telepathy 120 ft.

**Challenge** 26 (90,000 XP)

***Devil's Sight.*** Magical darkness doesn't impede Zariel's darkvision

***Fiery Weapons.*** Zariel's weapon attacks are magical. When she hits with any wapon, the weapon deals an extra 36 (8d8) fire damage (included in the weapon attacks below).

***Innate Spellcasting.*** Zariel's innate spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 26). She can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components:

At will: altar self (can become Medium when changing her apearance), detect evil and good, fireball, invisibility (self only), wall of fire

3/day each: blade barrier, dispel evil and good, finger of death

***Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If Zariel fails a saving throw, she can choose to succeed instead.

***Magic Resistance.*** Zariel has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects.

***Regeneration.*** Zariel regains 20 hit points at the start of her turn. If she takes radiant damage, this trait doesn't function at the start of her next turn. Zariel dies only if she starts her turn with 0 hit opints and doesn't regenerate.

**Actions**

***Multiattack.*** Zariel attacks wtice with her longsword or with her javelins. She can substitute Horrid Touch for one of these attacks.

***Longsword.*** Melee Weapon Attack: +16 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 17 (2d8 + 8) slashing damage, or 19 (2d10 + 8) slashing damage if used with two hands, plus 36 (8d8) fire damage.

***Javelin.*** Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +16 to hit, range 30/120 ft., one target. HIt: 15 (2d6 +8) piercing damage plus 36 (8d8) fire damage.

***Horrid Touch (Recharge 5-6).*** Melee Weapon Attack: +16 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 44 (8d10) necrotic damage, and the target is poisoned for 1 minute. While poisoned in this way, the target is also blinded and deafened. The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success.

***Teleport.*** Zariel magically teleports, along with any equipment she is wearing and carrying, up to 120 feet to an unoccupied space she can see.

**Legendary Actions**
Zariel can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action option can be used at a time and only at the end of another creature's turn. Zariel regains spent legendary actions at the start of her turn.

***Immolating Gaze (Costs 2 Actions).*** Zariel turns her magical gaze tward one creature she can see within 120 feet of her and commands it to combust. The target must succeed on a DC 26 Wisdom saving throw or take 22 (4d10) fire damage.

***Teleport.*** Zariel uses her Teleport action.


